Basic Commands:

kubectl create: Create a resource from a YAML file or command-line flags.
kubectl apply: Create or update a resource using a YAML file or command-line flags.
kubectl get: Retrieve information about resources.
kubectl describe: Show detailed information about a specific resource.
kubectl delete: Delete one or more resources by name or with a YAML file.
kubectl logs: Print the logs from a container in a pod.
kubectl exec: Run a command in a container of a pod.
kubectl port-forward: Forward one or more local ports to a pod.
kubectl scale: Change the number of replicas for a deployment, statefulset, or replicaset.
kubectl rollout: Manage rollouts of deployments or daemonsets.
kubectl expose: Expose a deployment, service, or pod as a new service.
Advanced Commands:

kubectl label: Add or update labels on resources.
kubectl annotate: Add or update annotations on resources.
kubectl patch: Update specific fields of a resource.
kubectl edit: Edit a resource using the default editor.
kubectl get events: Retrieve events related to resources.
kubectl top: Show resource usage statistics for pods or nodes.
kubectl proxy: Create a proxy to the Kubernetes API server.
kubectl taint: Taint a node with a key-value pair.
kubectl drain: Evict all pods from a node to prepare for maintenance.
kubectl cordon: Mark a node as unschedulable.
kubectl uncordon: Mark a node as schedulable again.
kubectl debug: Create a debugging pod based on an existing pod.
kubectl auth: Manage user authentication and authorization.
Cluster Operations:

kubectl cluster-info: Display cluster information, including the Kubernetes API server URL.
kubectl config: Manage kubeconfig files, including managing contexts and clusters.
kubectl version: Show the Kubernetes client and server versions.
Node Operations:

kubectl get nodes: Retrieve information about nodes in the cluster.
kubectl describe node <node-name>: Show detailed information about a specific node.
kubectl drain <node-name>: Evict all pods from a node to prepare for maintenance.
kubectl uncordon <node-name>: Mark a node as schedulable again after maintenance.
Namespace Operations:

kubectl create namespace <namespace-name>: Create a new namespace.
kubectl get namespaces: List all namespaces in the cluster.
kubectl describe namespace <namespace-name>: Show detailed information about a specific namespace.
kubectl delete namespace <namespace-name>: Delete a namespace and all resources within it.
Pod Operations:

kubectl get pods: List all pods in the cluster.
kubectl describe pod <pod-name>: Show detailed information about a specific pod.
kubectl logs <pod-name>: Print the logs from a specific pod.
kubectl exec -it <pod-name> -- <command>: Run a command in a specific pod interactively.
Service Operations:

kubectl get services: List all services in the cluster.
kubectl describe service <service-name>: Show detailed information about a specific service.
kubectl port-forward <pod-name> <local-port>:<remote-port>: Forward local ports to a pod.
Secret Operations:

kubectl create secret: Create a secret from literal values or files.
kubectl get secrets: List all secrets in the cluster.
kubectl describe secret <secret-name>: Show detailed information about a specific secret.
ConfigMap Operations:

kubectl create configmap: Create a ConfigMap from literal values, files, or directories.
kubectl get configmaps: List all ConfigMaps in the cluster.
kubectl describe configmap <configmap-name>: Show detailed information about a specific ConfigMap.
